Only on Fox.
Narrator:
Previously...
Please welcome one of America's
greatest soccer players.
Alexi Lalas?
Are we playing soccer
or are we cooking over here?
Narrator:
A world-class challenge....
Gordon:
Churros.
...meant sweet success...
- These are kinda sexy.
- ...for some...
That's textbook, spot-on.
- ...but...
- This is your worst
performance.
...it was the end
of the road...
Please, place your apron
on your bench.
...for Alecia.
- Tonight...
- Please welcome Shaun O'Neale.
a champion returns
for a MasterChef wedding.
It is my honor to declare you
husband and wife.
( cheers and applause )
- But...
- Imagine if it was
your wedding day.
- That's how we gotta work.
- ...when the top 18
join together
- for better or worse...
- Beautiful.
- You wanna serve this
( bleep ).
- the celebration...
- MasterChef mashed potatoes.
- ...ends in heartbreak.
You are not gonna captain
this team any longer.
I'm gonna run it.
- Whoo!
- This is so beautiful!
Oh, my God!
Top 18!
I am hyped right now.
We are riding in a safari truck
and I don't know
what we're doing,
- I don't know
where we're going.
- How amazing is he?
His name is Stanley.
He's nine years old.
Aarón:
Come on, Stanley.
You got all dressed up
for the party. Look at him.
There's obviously
vineyards here,
but then I look to my left
and there's a zebra,
and then I look to my right
and there's a giraffe.
- Good morning!
- Good morning, good morning.
We see the arch,
we see tents,
we see flowers everywhere.
So an environment
reminiscent of
an outdoor wedding.
Welcome to Saddlerock Ranch.
- Are you excited?
- All: Yes, Chef.
As you can see,
you are at a wedding!
- ( all cheer )
- Right?
And can you guess
who today's cooks are?
- Us.
Yes, you got it.
It is all of you guys.
Today's not just
anyone's wedding.
It's somebody
that's very important
to our MasterChef family.
Gordon:
All of you, please welcome
the winner of "MasterChef"
season seven, Shaun O'Neale,
and his fiancée Katie.
( cheers and applause )
What's up, guys?
Yeah!
Being able to cook
at Shaun's wedding
is an incredible honor.
- Chef Ramsay, great to see you.
- Welcome back.
But I also know how great
of a chef he is
and I know what kind
of expectations he has,
so this is gonna be hardcore.
- Shaun, welcome back
to the MasterChef family.
- Thank you, Chef. Thank you.
Give us an insight
to what you've been up to.
I've been cooking at some
of the biggest
food festivals
in the country,
but the biggest change
in my life
has been finding
my future wife.
All right, guys, you're gonna
be working in two teams.
Both teams will be making
a stunning appetizer,
followed by
an incredible entrée.
But the proteins
they'll be cooking with
will be up to both of you.
So, Shaun, Katie,
give us an insight
to what you'd love to see.
For the appetizer,
we would really like scallops
to be featured.
For our very first date,
Shaun made me scallops.
- How good were they?
- Katie: Amazing.
- Amazing.
- We're here now.
- ( all laugh )
- That's why.
And what will
the entrée protein be?
Duck breast.
- Duck. Yes.
- Wow!
Shaun: It's a tricky ingredient,
but if made right,
there is truly nothing else
like it.
Don't mess this up.
I expect perfection.
It's an absolute pleasure,
and for me,
seeing where you started
standing there,
to be hosting
your wedding today,
I can't think of a better way
to put these guys to the test.
Now go and get ready.
Next time we see you,
- you'll be husband and wife.
- Thank you, Chef.
We'll see you guys soon.
Bye, guys.
Kick some ass.
Julia:
This is a pretty big deal
right now, you know.
This isn't about just cooking
a kitchen and winning
a competition.
This is somebody's getting
married over here.
Like, this stuff has got
to be good today.
Today we're gonna elect
two home cooks
that have been flying
under the radar.
We wanna see what you can do
in a position of leadership.
Juni.
Come on up here.
You'll be the red team captain.
( cheers and applause )
The blue team captain today
will be Julia.
- Oh, nice!
- Come on, Julia!
Lindsay:
Juni and Julia.
You couldn't ask for two
different personalities.
I mean, Juni's a little bit all
over the place, pretty young,
and I think
a little bit flighty.
And Julia's got a very loud
and strong voice.
I mean, she knows what she
wants and she's gonna get it.
Joe:
Okay, Julia, first pick.
Okay.
This person to me
is just very strong,
and they work really
well under pressure.
That person is Lindsay.
Gordon:
Lindsay. Wow.
Old ladies gotta
stick together.
- Uh, Juni.
- This home cook,
I believe that their execution
of their dishes
has been phenomenal
and so I am choosing Cesar.
Gordon:
Cesar. Wow.
Thank you.
S.J.
My strategy with picking
my team,
is first of all, no drama.
Taylor.
Secondly, they need
to be a team player.
Ashley.
Juni:
I want a strong team
that's going to be able
to work together.
Mark.
Somebody that's going
to be able
to really step up to the plate.
Farhan.
They can't buckle
under pressure.
I don't want no freaking crying.
- Ralph.
- Let's go, Julia!
- Gerron.
Julia:
I do pay attention
to people's strengths,
and I want that strength
in my team.
Bowen.
- Juni. Three left.
- Yes. Three left.
Gordon:
Think about this one carefully.
Who don't you want?
- Who don't I want?
- Yeah.
Uh, Miss Shanika.
- ( chuckles )
- Why?
I don't like her
in the kitchen.
- I like her outside
of the kitchen.
- Ooh.
Really, Juni?
I'm choosing Samantha.
Gordon:
Samantha. Wow.
Shanika:
You're gonna eat those words,
because when you see me
in action,
you'll see exactly
what I'm capable of doing.
I would love to have Shanika.
- Thank you.
- All right.
- The red team's
going down today.
- Yes.
- Okay.
- I have the dream team.
I have everybody
that I wanted to work with.
I have confidence that
they'll be able to knock this
out of the park.
Juni, are you happy
with your team?
- I'm excited. Yes, we are.
- You're gonna win this today.
- Julia.
- I am feeling wonderful
about my team.
Honestly, I think
I have the most mature team.
- Right.
- And those are people
that I prefer to work with.
All right, so everybody's
happy on both teams.
A hundred percent happy,
that's an amazing thing,
but... too bad.
Told ya.
Because right now,
I would like
the team captains...
- to switch aprons.
- Oh!
Hell nah.
Joe:
So, Juni, you will captain
the blue team.
( sighs )
I knew it!
And, Julia, you will captain
the red team.
Oh, my God!
A great chef and a great leader
should be able
to work with anyone.
Today we'll be judging based
upon guest feedback,
obviously how well you work
in the kitchen,
and of course,
the dishes you plate,
to determine who wins
and which team faces
elimination.
- Are you both ready?
- All: Yes, Chef.
Your time starts now!
- Let's go, guys!
- Go! Go! Go!
- Come on, guys.
- Let's go, guys. Let's go.
- Team blue.
- Let's go! Let's go!
Okay, listen.
For the scallops,
I think we should
do three of them.
- Are we all in agreement?
- Yeah. Absolutely, yes.
I think underneath we should
probably do some lentils,
lke something in like
a really nice vinaigrette.
I was just going
in a complete
other direction,
but like a watercress salad,
blood orange supremes,
- some crispy sprouts on top,
basil oil.
- But all those components,
I don't know
if we're gonna have time.
I'm a little worried.
I got this team,
that I didn't even pick.
They're really, really young,
and they all think
they know everything.
I don't wanna be told
this is how we're supposed
to do it. I'm in charge.
As far as the duck,
I wanna do something classic
like a red wine reduction.
I mean, we're in a vineyard.
- Gerron: I like that.
I like that.
- All right.
- Everybody knows
what they're doing?
- Yes.
- We can do this.
- All right, let's go, guys.
Let's go! Let's go! Let's go!
I need everybody up here
who's gonna be doing scallops.
I've decided that we're gonna
do seared scallops
over a bed of lentils
with bacon,
and nice little salad on top.
Snap peas
with some red radishes
in a nice champagne
vinaigrette.
So the duck, we decided on
just nice roasted potatoes,
putting some mushrooms
in there.
We're gonna do a cherry
red wine sauce.
Cherries and duck,
it's classic.
So we're gonna pan sear
the scallops.
Do you guys think that we should
pan sear them in duck fat,
- to kinda tie the two dishes
together or--
- All: No.
- Okay, okay.
- They're too delicate.
As a vegetarian
of over ten years,
I don't cook with scallops,
I don't cook with duck,
but I'm confident
in my ability
to cook anything
that's put in front of me.
Got it, okay.
So, pan-seared scallops, uh,
- with some farro.
- I think we probably
should go with duck.
Yeah, I think we probably
should go with the duck.
Taylor:
Right off the bat
I'm a little worried.
If this were my wedding,
I would not want
to eat farro with scallops.
I just know I don't want
to eat a kind of grain.
I think for the entrée,
I am thinking of doing
a pan-seared duck breast...
- Yes.
- ...with orange zest,
mashed potatoes.
Mm... mm-mm.
Juni, you're not
making sense right now.
Freaking orange
mashed potatoes?
Who does that?
- Everybody got it? All right.
- Are we ready?
One, two, three.
- Blue team!
- Whoo!
Let's go!
Juni:
So for the appetizer,
we're gonna be doing
a pan-seared scallop
with some farro, blood orange
gastrique, and orange supremes.
For the entrée, we're gonna go
with the pan-seared duck breast
with orange zest mash,
and we're gonna do
a cherry red wine reduction
and some charred Romanesco.
I'm confident
that we can execute some dishes
to perfection today.
Shanika:
We got this, y'all.
We got this.
( music playing )
Gordon:
Red team, blue team,
our guests are arriving.
I'm looking forward
to the food,
because I-- I'm praying
that it's gonna be delicious.
It better be delicious!
Imagine if it was
your wedding day.
That's how we gotta work.
I have the highest expectations,
because Gordon Ramsay is
over there,
and I know he is making sure
everything is perfect.
Right, blue team.
Juni, tell me about the dish.
What are you doing?
So we're gonna do some
pan-seared scallops
with farro and--
- Farro?
- Yes.
- We need--
- Guys. Yeah, hold on.
Farro is a tough grain.
It's wintery.
We're in spring.
We're in the Malibu hills.
Has anyone questioned this?
- Yes.
- Yes, Chef.
- It's a wedding.
It's not a winter banquet.
- Yes.
- We have that celery root.
Let's use it.
So, I can do
a celery root purée.
Okay. Tell me about the duck.
For the duck,
we're gonna be doing
a pan-seared duck
with an orange zested mash,
- and then we're gonna do--
- An orange zested mash?
Yes.
Hey, blue team.
Blue team, just-- just stop.
An orange zested mash.
Put your hands in the air
if you've ever seen
an orange zested mash
in any restaurant
anywhere in the world.
What are we thinking?
- Meet, discuss, move.
- All: Yes, Chef.
Juni, get everybody you can
on that damn celery root purée.
Juni:
Yes, Chef.
Phew! Thank you, Jesus, Gordon,
for doing that.
Juni, your ideas sucked,
and Gordon got your ass.
All right, guys, come on.
- How are we doing?
- Good, we're doing good.
Scallops are almost prepped.
Julia:
Guys, be consistent
with everything.
- Captain Julia.
- Yes.
Come over, please.
Thank you.
Oh, ( bleep )!
( bleep )!
Stop!
- Who seasoned these?
- We all did, Chef.
What happens to them
when you season them
before you cook them?
- The moisture leaks out.
- That's right.
You never season
until you cook them,
'cause when you hit the pan
it's gonna be watery.
Come on, guys.
Look at the water running out
of them already.
Mark:
That's a cardinal sin.
You season right
before they go in the pan.
Julia, she obviously doesn't
know what she's doing.
We're cooking for a winner
of "MasterChef."
- Yes. I understand.
- Get a cloth and dry them.
Get rid of the seasoning
quickly.
Get a cloth, dry 'em.
Cesar:
We started out strong,
but that one mistake
could send service
into a downward spiral.
Come on, guys.
Please.
Julia:
Chelsea, are you taking
the pepper off of this?
- Yes, ma'am.
- Okay.
Emily:
We seasoned the scallops
way too early,
and now everyone's scrambling
to dry 'em off
and to get all the salt
and the pepper
and the oil off
of the scallops.
All right, come on, guys.
Let's go.
It's not in my DNA
that I'm gonna be the captain
of a losing team.
Are you serious?
No. It's not gonna happen.
Come on, guys.
We can do this.
( music playing )
Shaun:
As you guys know,
"MasterChef" has
changed my life.
It's changed everything
about my life.
( clears throat )
Since I lost my dad there's--
There's only been like one
main role model,
and, uh-- God.
( Shaun clears throat )
Everybody, Gordon Ramsay is
gonna come out,
and he's gonna finish
this off for us.
So, I'd like to introduce you
all right now
to Chef Gordon Ramsay.
Yeah. Okay.
Right.
I'm really honored
to be part of
this very special day,
and I hope that you remember
this for the rest of your lives.
- Absolutely.
- Katie: We will.
- Are we ready?
- Both: Yes.
( all laugh )
All right, guys, 15 minutes
and I need to see a dish.
Juni, make sure
you start delegating.
- Oh, yeah. For sure.
- All right? Let's go.
Just let me know
that the scallops are good.
- Right? Okay.
- Yes, these are patted dry.
By the power vested in me,
it's my honor to declare you
both husband and wife.
And now you may seal this
declaration with a huge kiss.
( cheers and applause )
Your wedding ceremony is over.
Now it's time to celebrate,
and I've got to get
to the kitchen.
- Yeah. Get in there.
Get in there.
- Well done.
- Thank you, Chef.
- You're welcome.
Here it is.
I need a VIP.
- Two top, for the bride
and the groom.
- Yes, Chef.
After that, I need a six
and a five top.
- Yes, Chef.
- Let's go.
Julia:
I want them perfect!
Perfectly seared.
- Do not overcook them.
- No.
- We won't.
- Julia: All right,
pass me up the dishes.
Man:
Ladies and gentlemen,
Mr. and Mrs. O'Neale.
( cheers and applause )
- How long, Julia?
- 30 seconds.
- Scallops, I need 'em now!
- Scallops up.
I'm excited to eat.
Shaun:
I'm hoping these guys can
pull off an amazing meal.
We're expecting excellence.
Matt, how is the first batch
of purée coming?
- Is it done?
- Purée's coming. It's still--
Still breaking down.
It needs a lot of time.
Juni, I need a time.
- How long?
- So it is gonna be like
another ten minutes.
- Another ten minutes.
- Yeah.
- No. No.
- No.
- Gordon: Where's the purée?
- Juni: It's cooking right now.
Juni, I need to have one
portion of purée made
for at least some tables.
Let's go.
- What are we doing?
- Look at this.
- Juni: It's still too hard.
- Gordon: Stop, stop.
- Juni: Is it done?
- Matt: It's too thick,
yeah, but--
- ( bleep )! Oh, I--
- No.
Hey, hey, hey,
blue team.
- Yes, Chef.
Listen carefully.
The party has sat down
and the purée's raw.
Already, blue team,
you're all over the place.
And do you know why?
No one's communicating
and the captain's disappeared.
You need to get
on the same page.
- Is that clear?
- All: Yes, Chef.
I'm telling you now,
you drop the purée.
- Yes.
- Five minutes.
- So no purée? Got it.
- Seven covers. Let's go.
Shanika:
We have to completely
change our menu.
We don't have any time.
We gotta figure something out,
like, quick.
We need to do something light,
like a pickled carrot.
Should we do that?
Okay. We can do that.
Thank, God, Taylor steps up.
- We're doing the carrots.
- All right.
I'm just grabbing
a whole bunch of them.
Sorry, Juni,
you suck as a captain.
We need you to lead.
You gotta think on your toes.
Step up!
Everybody step up!
S.J.:
We got this. Let's go!
Let's go! Push!
All right, perfect.
There you go. Good.
Servers, please.
First table.
Bride and groom, sir.
Aarón:
Garnish, Juni.
Let's go.
Come on, let's go.
Juni:
I really need to nail this
because I wanna impress
Chef Aarón.
He gave me this apron,
and hopefully
the dish is perfect,
because it's going out
to the bride and groom.
All right, let's go.
All right, Shaun, Katie.
First opinions.
- So-- Yeah?
- They're both really good.
Joe:
So, the red team,
you have seared scallops
with braised lentils
and snap pea salad.
And for the blue team,
we have seared scallops
with pickled carrots
and blood orange gastrique.
This has a nice
peppery tone to it.
- It's delicious.
- So, the red team,
lentils, peppery.
It's nice--
nice peppery tone.
They did a really good job
pickling those carrots
in a short amount of time.
Flavor's better here,
sear's better here.
If you had to give me a vote
right now. red team, blue team--
- Red team.
Red team, red team.
Great. Enjoy.
Yeah. Thank you, Chef.
- Gordon: Remind me
what's going. A six--
- A six and an eight.
- Talk to them.
- I just did.
- You, focus.
- Yes, Chef.
Table 14, please.
Thank you.
Go!
The way these are cooked
is so perfect,
and the flavor's so great.
Aarón: Come on!
This is somebody's wedding.
Finish me off.
Give me beautiful.
So the blue team's scallops
freaking rock,
and they're seared
perfectly.
Let's go! Con ganas.
Muevete!
Allí. Finish the garnish.
Let's go.
Undercooked or overcooked?
This one looks like a--
this one looks
like a potato chip.
Come on, come on.
What the hell
are you looking at?
- I didn't wanna put it down--
- Yeah, don't worry.
By the time you get over here,
it's gonna be done.
Sounds good.
Tell me.
You guys have refined palates.
You've been through
the "MasterChef" circuit.
- Yeah.
- How did they do?
I just wish that some of the--
some of the cooked on things
like the bacon,
and some of the flavors were
a little bit more developed...
- Right.
- ...but I think
it was a great move
- for an appetizer.
- Excellent. What do you think?
I felt the flavor combination
was great, Joe.
I just want a little more sear
on that scallop.
Got it. Enjoy the rest
of the wedding, guys.
- Thank you. Thank you, Chef.
- Thank you, Chef.
Look at these.
I mean, they're overcooked.
Hey, you two.
You two, come here.
Just ask yourself.
Would you eat those?
- No, I wouldn't.
- No, Chef.
We have a former winner,
and you wanna serve
this ( bleep ).
And this is what bugs me.
No one's giving me standards.
And none of you'd eat that,
but you're happy to serve it
to a winner.
Julia:
He's right.
This is somebody's
freaking wedding.
Like, I don't wanna ruin it.
We gotta get this together.
Enough's enough!
Red team, last table.
Six scallops away.
Let's go.
Yes, Chef.
18 scallops!
- Now!
- They're coming out
in just a second.
Juni, let's go.
Finish these up.
Let's go.
The last push.
Come on, Juni.
Get in there, finish strong.
- Are these good to go,
Juni Captain?
- Yes, those two are good to go.
All right.
Let's go, table seven.
Juni:
We're done, we're done.
We're good.
Matt:
Now that appetizers are done,
all I know is
with this entrée round,
we have to do a way better job
if we wanna win
this team challenge.
Lentils. Come on!
- Come on.
- Plate down, please.
- Nice cut on the scallops.
- Thank you.
- Come on, guys.
- Service, please.
- Gordon: Table 18. Let's go.
- Julia: That's it.
- Let's regroup.
- Let's regroup, guys. Come on.
Chelsea:
I actually think
the red team did great.
I mean, under the circumstances.
Scallops is not
an easy protein.
I feel great and I know
that we just have to keep up
the momentum for the entrée,
and we cannot slow down.
Cheers to the red team!
- They did good.
- Go, red!
Yes!
Red team had
a really slow start,
but they've actually
stepped up.
- Come on, guys.
- On the blue team,
Juni has completely lost
his voice.
He was not leading,
not delegating.
Juni needs to step back up,
delegate and make sure
that we can execute
the way it should be
to our standards.
- Bounce back.
- Bounce back. That's right.
I know the apps are important,
but the star today
is gonna be that duck.
Joe:
The cook has to be perfect.
We need fat rendered,
we need crispy skin.
If we don't have
those elements, we got nothing.
Next course is make or break
for the red
and the blue team.
I want these all scored
exactly the same...
- Okay, I got you.
- ...and I want 'em perfect.
Julia, I need you right now.
- Yes.
- Talk to me quickly.
What are you making?
We're gonna sear
the duck breast.
We're gonna do some
tri-color potatoes,
and then we're doing
some mushrooms,
that we're just gonna sauté
in some butter,
and then a red wine
cherry sauce.
Julia, if this duck
is messed up, it's all on you.
Julia:
I'm the team captain,
so anything that goes wrong,
of course
they're gonna blame me.
So just pay attention,
listen to what I'm saying,
and we're gonna be fine.
Dry 'em, score 'em.
Salt and pepper.
Let's get 'em on the side.
Let's get 'em ready.
- Captain. Tell me about
the dish. What are you doing?
- Yes.
We're gonna do
a pan-seared duck,
and we're changing the mash...
- Okay, love it.
- ...to a garlic herb
mashed potato
- and then we're gonna do
some charred Romanesco.
- Okay.
- How are you gonna make
that mash wonderful?
- Uh, yes.
Gordon:
I mean garlic mash
is so simple. It's--
The garlic is going
to be roasted
before it's put into the mash.
Thank you, Chef.
- Shanika: So you're not gonna
do the fondant potatoes?
- No.
Come over here, please.
Garlic mash is not sexy,
it's not elegant.
We can do the fondant potatoes
a little bit smaller.
It'll be easier
for us to cook 'em,
because we can do 'em
on top of the stove,
baste 'em with some butter.
Garlic mashed potatoes. Come on.
How simple can you get?
We already have
the mash going
- in the pots right now.
- I know,
but I don't think it's better
than a fondant potato.
For somebody's wedding?
We're doing the mash
in the piping bag
so that we can make sure
that we have consistency
- and it doesn't look bad.
- All right. You're the captain.
Go with the little funky
mashed potatoes then.
In the piping bag.
- You guys good
on potatoes then?
- Yeah.
- You're not peeling?
- Oh, we are peeling,
but by cutting them first
like this.
Juni:
Got it, got it, got it.
Of course, like,
a little bit of skin
won't make too much
of a difference.
Juni:
Yeah, that's fine.
Okay, we need to get
some garlic roasted.
- It's in the oven, Juni.
- It's in the oven.
Ah, you're the best.
Shaun: Entrée round
I'm terrified about.
Duck breast is a hard
protein to cook.
Hopefully there's somebody
that knows how to render fat
and knows
how to appropriately cook
a nice, beautiful, pink-
all-the-way-through duck.
- How we doing on this?
- We're looking really good.
I'm just making sure
that they render perfectly
and I don't burn any of them.
Guys, those mushrooms
should be done!
Gordon:
What are you doing?
What's in there?
Does it need more salt?
There's no salt in there.
- Did you taste the water?
- No, Chef.
I am starting
to lose confidence.
Things are just falling apart.
Blue team, charred Romanesco
is on a charcoal grill.
So what are
we charring it on?
Lindsay:
Are we getting 'em
in cast-iron?
I was thinking the broiler.
That's not charred, is it?
- That's roasted.
- I think they were gonna do it
over the open flame.
That's what I thought.
- Open flame? Open flame?
- Yes. That's what I thought.
Oh, my God!
Speak up!
Taylor:
I am so frustrated,
because we have lost our captain
at this point.
- Who's on the mash?
- We are here, sir.
They're going
to be working on it.
They're preparing the potatoes
right now, Chef.
- Good.
- Ralph:
Blue team's ship is sinking.
Our confidence level is so down.
Somebody needs to step up ASAP.
The MasterChef mashed potatoes.
Holy ( bleep )!
- Hey, you two, come here.
- Hey.
Hey, come here, you two.
We came in to this competition
with ambition to win.
We're making mashed potatoes.
We go there, down to there.
We've got skin on.
Black eyes here.
Now, when I said to you all,
"Set yourselves up
for success,"
you're ( bleep ) even
before you come out of the gate.
Look.
Mashed potatoes.
Someone came up
with a smart idea of fondants.
- Who was that earlier?
- Shanika.
So it's one fondant
per person.
Half a potato, cut,
ring in, done.
But, look.
How does that
become a stunning mash?
It doesn't, Chef.
Let me tell you something.
You are not gonna captain
this team any longer.
Have a meeting,
and somebody step up
and run this team.
If not, I'm gonna run it.
All:
Yes, Chef.
Now!
You are not gonna captain
this team any longer.
Have a meeting, and somebody
step up and run this team.
If not, I'm gonna run it.
All:
Yes, Chef.
Now!
I'm totally okay with, like,
stepping in and doing this.
Are you okay with that?
Are you all okay with that?
- Right.
- Yep. Okay, let's go.
Who am I to fight this?
Juni, who is the captain?
Taylor's stepping in.
Taylor is brave enough
to step in
and say that she wants
to be captain.
I'm okay with the decision.
- Everyone good to go?
- Yes.
I'm not, the only reason I'm not
is because of the potatoes.
We can do one
fondant potato per person.
You cut 'em in half.
- Okay. Then, yes, let's do it.
- Come here, Taylor.
- Let's do it.
- Yeah, let's do it.
Phew!
Thank you, Taylor.
Sorry, Juni.
Your voice wasn't loud enough,
your ideas sucked.
We need leadership.
Gordon:
Young man,
I know you can do better.
Now you may not
be the captain
of blue team,
but it doesn't mean to say
you have to give up.
Understood.
- Taylor.
- Yes, Chef.
- We need to get
this thing moving.
- Got it.
I am not going
to let Gordon Ramsay down.
Now it's my time to just
bring it and prove to him
that he made a right decision
giving me that apron.
It's a little bit thick.
We need to lighten it up
a little bit.
Aarón:
Red team, listen up.
Five minutes.
It's go time.
Chelsea,
get the sauce down.
Julia is loud in the kitchen,
but she's not just yelling
at us.
She's leading the team.
Let's go!
Come on, Chelsea.
We're on a roll.
The red team's doing great.
Keep it up, guys.
Who's on the red wine sauce?
Ashley has it reducing
right now.
How many portions are here?
That's...
- Come on! Taylor.
- ...maybe 12, Chef.
- Yes, Chef.
- Five portions of sauce there
and barely ten there.
And all you've been making,
young lady, is the sauce.
- Yes, Chef.
- And yet you've got
35 portions not done.
I gave you a pin,
I believe you,
but you just--
you're just not with it.
- Yes, Chef. Yes, Chef.
- You've gotta help me.
We got this. No, no, it's okay.
Deep breath.
- You got this, you got this.
- Hey, you're just wasting time.
- Yes, Chef.
- Taylor: I'm honestly shocked
to see Ashley kind of
breaking down a little bit.
I do feel bad
that she's so upset,
but we don't have time for that.
You've got nothing done.
Just get your act together.
That's enough.
Get a grip, 50 portions.
Deep breath.
We got it, girl.
- Let's go.
- ( Ashley groans )
I need a beautiful duck dish
for the bride and groom,
and then I need a six top
following that.
Julia:
I want these all
out together.
Let's go.
Get those potatoes
right now, guys.
Don't just sit around.
Come on. Quicker, Ryan.
Shanika, let's get
all those potatoes on.
They're coming.
We're gonna break it
down into two teams.
I'm gonna be right here,
and we're gonna have Juni
and Matt helping me.
Get ready for game time.
Okay, Aarón,
which one is the bride
and groom's dish?
- It's right here, my friend.
- All right, beautiful.
- Looks good.
- Gerron, I've got
12 ducks coming up.
- Hot plate right now, come on.
- Hey. Psst!
Yeah?
- Potatoes.
We need the potatoes.
Oh, we need the potatoes.
Yes. Yes, potatoes.
Oh, my God almighty.
- Yes, Chef.
- Hey, Clark Kent.
- Wake up.
- Yes, Chef.
Okay, we're ready for
the bride and groom dish.
We're working on 'em
right here.
Let's go. Two more minutes
to go. Right here.
Sauce, potato.
Potato!
- Potato. Yes, Chef.
- ( bleep ) potato head!
Are you serious?
- Bride and groom. Thank you.
Gordon:
Get it together.
- All right, Chef.
- Or ( bleep ) off
and feed the giraffe.
Yes, Chef.
- Gordon: Oh, my Lord.
- ( cheers and applause )
- Are you ready?
- Yes, sir.
For the blue team, we have a
cherry and red wine reduction,
potato fondant, Romanesco,
and here we have a wine
reduction sauce
with mushrooms
and roasted potatoes.
- What do you think?
- The blue team's duck is cooked
perfect for me.
Perfect? Wow!
How's that sauce?
- Looks a little
over-reduced, maybe?
- It is,
but I could care less
about that.
The duck is cooked
pretty much perfectly.
- Red team? Hmm.
- This is a little sloppy.
Potatoes and mushrooms
are great but the duck is
a little under...
- Yeah.
- ...which is a bummer,
'cause they had such a strong
showing on the appetizer.
Okay.
Well, let's hope they did better
for the rest of your guests.
I hope so, too.
Aarón:
All right, guys, let's go.
- Six top.
- I got two ducks ready to fly.
Julia:
Let's go! Get me the mushrooms
out here now!
Six and a five coming up.
All right, servers.
Woman:
The red team's duck was great.
They had amazing vegetables.
The potatoes were amazing.
The mushrooms were cooked
very well.
My duck was cooked great.
I ate all of it.
Guys, we need to get
those plates up here.
Warm plates, right now.
Gordon:
I need a six and a one.
Come on, come on, come on.
I had the blue team's duck
tonight.
It was pretty good.
There were a couple pieces
that were a little bit rarer
than I would prefer,
but the flavor was good
and the sauce was good.
All right, guys,
I'm gonna fire three six tops.
- Smarty-pants,
how many is that?
- 18.
I wanna go to the college
y'all went to.
Dan:
I'd like a little more sear
on the duck,
but overall,
pretty damn good dish.
- Move your ass!
- Yes, Chef.
The flavor was excellent,
but the meat was a little cool
in the middle.
- Last six. Let's go!
- All right, y'all,
this is our last table
right here.
We need perfect ducks going out.
The very last. Come on, y'all,
this is it. Let's go, let's go.
Aarón:
This is the last six top.
I need it now.
I need duck on a plate,
garnish last.
Gerron:
I got four sitting ducks.
- Let's go!
- I got it. No problem.
Ain't no thing.
Coming around, coming around.
Take it, take it, take it.
There you go.
That's what
we're talking about.
- We got it.
Hey, come here, y'all.
We did our best.
We didn't have that much
organization,
but we served them.
Even though it was chaotic
in our kitchen,
we did get all the dishes out.
I really hope
that we can pull this off,
but I don't know
if it was enough.
We should hold our heads up.
Let's break this down,
but good job.
- Go for it.
- We're done.
- Way to pull it together, guys.
- Great job, great job.
Finally service is over,
and everybody was working
together
as a really good cohesive team.
I gotta be honest,
I'm feeling pretty confident
right now.
Joe:
Hello, everybody.
Enjoying the lovely wedding?
Everything good?
- The wedding is amazing.
- Did you enjoy your duck?
- We did not enjoy our duck, no.
- No one?
- So--
- It was literally blood red.
This was the duck
from the red team.
Everything looks really good.
- Clean up.
- So undercooked you think?
Raw?
I'll have them
make 'em all again.
I'll be right back.
Julia:
Where are you putting these
dishes, back there?
- Do we have scrubbies?
- Can you put some soap
in here, please?
Should we just throw
this stuff out?
- Yeah.
- So this is just garbage?
- ( grunts )
- Guys.
We got an issue.
They're clearing out tables.
These people pulled me aside.
They refuse to eat this.
They say it's raw
and disgusting.
We need more plates on the fly.
- Oh, God.
- What happened?
- We're wrapped up.
- Four new plates?
- Mushrooms are in the garbage.
- I know. I threw 'em out.
Mushrooms are thrown out.
We don't have mushrooms,
we don't have sauce.
Oh, my God.
The duck is raw.
We have to remake the plates,
but we've thrown away all
of our ingredients.
Can you get the mushrooms
in the pan now?
- What can I do?
- Farhan: The team
is freaking out.
We thought we had nailed it
and now I'm hoping it's not
enough to make us lose tonight.
Service isn't over
till it's over.
Farhan:
Oh, my God.
Guys.
These people are not eating.
They refuse to eat this.
They say it's raw
and disgusting.
We need four plates on the fly.
- Oh, my God.
- Let's go!
We got, like, two minutes
to make this happen.
- Mushrooms are in the garbage.
- Cesar, where's the sauce?
It got thrown out.
It got thrown out!
Everything got thrown out!
Gerron:
Come on, we need to make
something real quick.
Julia:
We should've known better.
Service isn't over
until the last person
walks out of the reception.
- Come on, guys. Let's go!
- Four portions, let's go.
Aarón:
I need potatoes hot.
I need that sauce sexy.
Come on, guys.
We can do this.
We made a mistake,
and I really hope this doesn't
affect our chances.
You know what?
It would really suck
if we did not win today.
Bring out the mushrooms
when they're done,
family-style,
because if not, these people
are gonna walk on me.
- Okay?
- Aarón: Plate 'em right now.
Let's go. Put the duck on.
Let's go, come on.
Come with the third.
Let's go.
Never throw anything away.
- Totally, no.
- Lesson learned.
Okay, re-plated, redone.
The only problem is
we don't have mushrooms
because they're
re-cooking 'em again.
They're gonna come out and serve
'em to you family-style.
They're very sorry.
Bon appétit.
Thank you.
We got the plates out
that we needed to.
We re-fired what was raw,
and we made as many people
happy as we could.
That's really the name
of the game.
Job well done.
Team red, love it.
Thank you.
Emily:
I was on the losing team
last team challenge,
and that's not a good feeling.
I don't know what happened
on the other side of that wall,
but if the blue team did even
a slightly better cook
of their duck,
they could pull out a win.
( music playing )
Ladies and gentlemen, please,
welcome our talented home cooks
that were up against it today.
Welcome our red team
and our blue team, ladies
and gentlemen, thank you.
( cheers and applause )
Now for the important part.
Are the lovely couple
ready to announce
which team served the best meal
across this incredible lunch?
Yes, Chef.
Gordon:
Good.
Please pick up
the champagne.
The winning team...
- is...
- One, two, three.
- ...red team.
- ( cheers and applause )
Julia:
The red team won!
Bravissimo!
This is perfection!
Forget about it.
I knew we were gonna win.
You're amazing!
Team captain!
She's the best!
I know that we had some snags
along the way,
but I feel in the end
we had a great system going.
I'm so proud of my team.
Congratulations,
red team.
You're safe from elimination,
and guys,
you really, really earned it.
Thank you!
And you know what that means,
blue team.
Please head to the kitchen
and clean up.
Thank you.
Just... very disappointing.
I thought that I could step up
and be a team captain,
and turn this whole thing
around,
but it just wasn't enough.
And it just really sucks.
I think once we got the hang
of everything toward the end,
everything was starting
to get a little stronger.
- We finished stronger
than we started.
- Yeah, definitely.
It really sucks
to be on the losing team again.
I chose the people
on the red team
because I wanted to be
with those people and
I know how they work,
but you just gotta play
with the cards that you're
dealt with.
Joe:
Guys, come on over, please.
Line up here. Come on.
Quick, quick, quick.
That was not a good performance.
My saving grace was
when we switched captains,
finally we had a little bit
of authority.
We got it together.
Yes, it wasn't smooth,
but I'm not expecting it
to be smooth.
You made it hard for yourselves.
You do deserve to lose.
However, there were a few
individuals that did shine,
let me tell you.
So, we decided
that we're gonna save
two cooks from elimination.
And that's Shanika and...
Taylor.
Lindsay:
I'm thrilled for Taylor.
I mean, I think
she's done a great job.
I mean, she walked in
in chaos and managed
to turn that around.
I think she absolutely
deserves it.
Congratulations,
Taylor, Shanika.
You are safe from elimination.
- Thank you, Chef.
A couple of bright spots
in an otherwise dismal team.
The rest of you will be facing
elimination tomorrow.
Now, all of you,
clean this mess quickly,
and I'll see you back
in the MasterChef kitchen.
Not good.
We have two people we know
are gonna go
straight up to the balcony,
and the seven of us are up
for elimination,
'cause no one is safe.
That's a terrible feeling
to have.
I can't go home right now.
I can't go home.
Come on down, guys.
Please.
Ashley:
It feels terrible
going into the pressure test.
I am wearing Gordon's pin.
If I don't make it up
to that balcony,
he is going to be
so disappointed.
All of you, welcome back
to the MasterChef kitchen.
Yesterday was challenging.
Trust me.
That was the idea.
There could only be one
winning team,
and red team, that was you.
Congratulations.
You are all safe
from elimination.
Gordon:
Blue team, as you know,
we decided to save
Taylor and Shanika.
Congratulations.
You're both safe.
Head up onto the balcony.
Thank you, Chef.
When deciding exactly
what this pressure test
would be,
we decided...
there is
no pressure test.
No pressure test.
I mean, this is concerning.
Usually you can come in here
and show 'em that you have what
it takes to still go farther
in this competition.
I'm running through
everything I did in my head
and trying to think,
did I do enough to get through?
We are sending one of you home.
Ralph, Bowen,
Lindsay, Matt, S.J.,
the five of you...
you're safe.
( whispering )
Oh, my God.
Head up onto the balcony.
Juni, possibly one of the worst
performing captains
I've ever witnessed.
Ever.
You let go
of your responsibilities.
Ashley, you cracked
under pressure.
Like I've never expected.
You're standing there
with tears in your eyes
about a sauce.
- Ashley...
- Yes, Chef.
...you are staying.
Congrats.
Good luck.
Thank you, Chef.
Thank you, Joe.
Juni, unfortunately,
your journey ends tonight.
You know, young man,
you came in with a spark
and the charisma and we loved
that attitude.
But, unfortunately,
your team was doomed
before they started yesterday.
The menu was badly
conceptualized,
and you lost complete direction
of your team.
We wish you all the best.
Thank you.
Please take the apron off
and leave the MasterChef
kitchen.
I thank you for everything
that you have taught me,
and I thank you all
for the lovely friendships,
and I wish you all
the best of luck.
- Bye, Juni.
- May the next MasterChef win.
See you in Carolina!
Juni:
It's sad that my journey's
ending so soon,
but the fact that I've been able
to cook great dishes,
and I have even stepped
into the MasterChef kitchen,
Gordon Ramsay has tasted
my food.
How many people can say
that they have done that?
Not many.
I think that
when my mom sees this,
she's going to be even more
proud of me.
She's gonna see that,
you know,
I've really ignited the fire
to keep it going.
The competition's getting
harder every day.
Taylor:
It's getting real
in this kitchen.
People are going like that.
Aarón just lost
another member of his team.
He's down to six aprons.
Joe is at six,
and Gordon's still at five.
I just gotta stay strong,
stay positive and focus,
and really, really continue
to earn my spot here.
You've got to keep your sights
set on that MasterChef trophy.
Get some rest.
Good night.
Narrator:
Next time...
Tonight, cooking alongside you,
Aarón Sánchez.
- Yes!
- Whoo!
...a MasterChef...
This is like Christmas, baby.
- ...brings gifts...
- Oh, my gosh.
...from the Bayou.
- This sucks.
- ( screams )
And when big Cajun flavors
turn up the heat...
- I got a live one.
- ( laughs )
Cooking next to Aarón is
absolutely terrifying.
- ...the top 17...
- Look at me.
...face the shock
of the season.
There's more on the line
than you thought.
Oh, Lord.